EditoriAl
Nature reviews | NeurologySince the launch of our journal as Nature Clinical 
Practice Neurology back in 2005, we have witnessed sub-
stantial progress in several areas of neurology, including 
disease- modifying drugs for multiple sclerosis (MS), 
thrombolysis and thrombectomy for acute ischaemic stroke and, most recently, genetic therapies for spinal 
muscular atrophy (SMA). As we highlight in this 15th 
anniversary issue, these advances have raised new ques-tions and challenges that will need to be addressed in the future.
In a specially commissioned series of Comment arti-
cles on the overarching theme ‘neurology at the cross-roads’ , key opinion leaders explore subspecialties of neurology in which a turning point has been reached, 
for example, in light of the success of a new therapy or 
the failure of a specific approach. The authors of each article were asked to consider how these pivotal events might necessitate a change in thinking to move the field 
forward.
Alan Thompson and Olga Ciccarelli acknowledge 
the rapid expansion of treatment options for relapsing–
remitting forms of MS over the past few years, and 
they propose that we now need to turn our attention to 
tackling progressive MS
1. This endeavour will require 
a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying 
MS progression and the development of biomarkers to 
identify patients who are entering the progressive phase of the disease.
The introduction of mechanical thrombectomy for 
the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke is enabling reca-nalization of the occluded vessel to be achieved in an increasing number of patients. However, as Guido Stoll and Mirko Pham point out in their Comment article
2, 
many individuals still experience poor outcomes owing 
to factors such as delays in treatment initiation, and 
ischaemia–reperfusion injury following recanalization. The authors suggest that these issues could be addressed through a combination of traditional neuroprotective 
strategies and novel therapies.
The approval of the antisense oligonucleotide nusin-
ersen is transforming SMA from a lethal to a treat-
able disease. Michelle Farrar and Matthew Kiernan 
consider how this rapidly evolving clinical landscape 
is uncove ring health- care disparities and provoking 
debate regarding drug pricing
3, as well as creating new 
challenges for the long- term management of individuals 
with SMA.As the remaining two Comment articles illustrate, 
not all changes of direction in the neurology field have been fuelled by success. Michael Rafii and Paul Aisen
4 
highlight the persistent failure of anti- amyloid therapies 
for Alzheimer disease (AD), which has led to suggestions from some quarters to abandon this approach and inves-tigate new therapeutic targets, such as tau pathology. However, the authors argue that earlier intervention and 
better trial designs could still enable amyloid-  targeting 
therapies to fulfil their potential.
The past three decades have seen the development 
of a plethora of antiepileptic drugs, yet the incidence of pharmacoresistant epilepsy has remained largely 
unchanged. In his Comment article
5, Holger Lerche dis-
cusses the prospect of novel treatment approaches that 
target the underlying epileptogenic mechanisms rather 
than individual seizures.
The anniversary issue is accompanied by an online 
collection containing some our most- cited articles 
from the past 15 years, including a Review by Martin Bendszus and Guido Stoll from the very first issue. Bringing the field right up to date, the issue also includes two Perspectives on the neurological consequences of 
COVID-19 — an important emerging area of research 
that we will continue to follow closely.
The rapid proliferation of scientific data during 
the current pandemic has underlined the importance  
of monitoring and filtering the literature to provide timely and accurate information, and the Nature Reviews  
journals have a vital part to play in this ongoing effort. We would like to take this opportunity to thank the 
editorial and production staff, authors, peer reviewers 
and journal advisors who have contributed to the journal over the past 15 years, and we look forward to providing a valuable service to our authors and readers for many 
years to come.
1. Thompson, A. & Ciccarelli, O. T owards treating progressive multiple 
sclerosis. Nat. Rev. Neurol. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41582-020-
00421-4 (2020).
2. Stoll, G. & Pham, M. Beyond recanalization — a call for action  
in acute stroke. Nat. Rev. Neurol. https://doi.org/10.1038/ 
s41582-020-00417-0 (2020).
3. Farrar, M. A. & Kiernan, M. C. Spinal muscular atrophy — the 
dawning of a new era. Nat. Rev. Neurol. https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41582-020-00410-7 (2020).
4. Author, A., Rafii, M. S. & Aisen, P . S. The search for Alzheimer 
disease therapeutics — same targets, better trials? Nat. Rev. 
Neurol. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41582-020-00414-3 (2020).
5. Lerche, H. Drug- resistant epilepsy — time to target mechanisms. 
Nat. Rev. Neurol. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41582-020-00419-y 
(2020).Neurology at the crossroads
Advances in neurology over the past 15 years have transformed the treatment of a number of 
conditions but have also raised new questions and challenges.
key opinion 
leaders explore 
subspecialties 
of neurology in which a turning point has been 
reached
  volume 16 | November 2020 | 587