Parkinson Disease Epidemiology, Pathology, Genetics and 
Pathophysiology
David K. Simon, MD PhD [Professor of Neurology] ,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330 Brookline Avenue, 
Boston, MA 02215
Caroline M. Tanner, MD, PhD [Professor of Neurology] ,
University of California-San Francisco, Director, PADRECC, San Francisco Veterans Affairs 
Health Care System, 675 Nelson Rising Lane, San Francisco CA 94158
Patrik Brundin, MD, PhD [Associate Director]
Van Andel Research Institute, Director, Center for Neurodegenerative Science, Van Andel 
Institute, 333 Bostwick Ave. N.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49503-2518
Keywords
Parkinson’s disease; pathology; epidemiology; genetics; pathophysiology; mitochondrial; 
synuclein; neuroprotection
INTRODUCTION
Parkinson disease (PD) is a complex progressive neurodegenerative disease described by 
James Parkinson in his 1817 publication, “Essay on the Shaking Palsy”( 1). In that essay Dr. 
Parkinson optimistically declared that “there appears to be sufficient reason for hoping that 
some remedial process may ere long be discovered, by which, at least, the progress of the 
disease may be stopped.” More than 200 years later we have yet to definitively achieve 
neuroprotective therapy for PD. However, there has been great progress in recent decades in 
understanding the molecular basis for neurodegeneration in PD, hopefully bringing us 
steadily getting closer to achieving truly disease-modifying therapies for PD.
Pathologically, PD is defined by loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars 
compacta (SN) located in the midbrain and associated with Lewy bodies, which are 
cytoplasmic inclusions that include insoluble alpha-synuclein aggregates. However, PD is 
characterized by more widespread pathology in other brain regions and involves non-
dopaminergic neurons as well. The clinical diagnosis of PD is based primarily on motor 
features, such as a slowly progressive asymmetric resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity and 
bradykinesia, although non-motor features, which include anosmia, constipation, depression 
corresponding author: Phone: 617-667-0519, Fax: 617-735-2826, dsimon1@bidmc.harvard.edu. 
Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our 
customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of 
the resulting proof before it is published in its final form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered 
which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.
HHS Public Access